Today is October 19, 2021

Topic: CI/CD with Jenkins



cybertek.com - production

qa.cybertek.com     |
                    | test environments
test.cybertek.com   |


ci - continues integration
cd - continues delivery/deployment

deployment - process of sending new version of the application to some environment.

environment - version of the application. All environments look almost the same, except that only production has a real data.

What environments we usually have?

dev - reserved for developers
test - reserved for functional testers
stage - to prepare for release
pre-prod - mirror of production, has exactly same version of app as prod. Helps to test production issues.
production - used by end-users

Break until 3:15 PM EST

If my tests are running for too long, and at the end I see that all tests failed and SessionNotCreatedException try to:
1. restart the server:
- go to aws ec2 console
- select server
- instance state
- reboot

NOTE: after reboot(or stop) IP address can change. Please make sure that you have correct IPv4 public address.

To reach Jenkins - IP:8081

# Security groups:

There are INBOUND and OUTBOUND rules.

INBOUND - who can connect to the server (default - port 3389 for windows, 22 for linux)
OUTBOUND - what server can reach (default - everything)

IP:PORT

IP - server address

PORT - is like an apartment number, address of specific program within server.

SessionNotCreatedException - webdriver cannot talk to chrome browser.


But we can say google.com, without port? Because if you don't specify port, it will reach port 443 for HTTPS and 80 for HTTP by default.


HTTP protocol not recommended, thus most of the websites use HTTPS.


Default port for Jenkins is 8080, but we set it to 8081.

Install cucumber plugin

Plugins - manage plugins -> available -> cucumber reports -> install and restart -> reload browser page after a minute or so -> login again.


TZ=US/Eastern
H 5 1 1 *
H 4 * * 1-5


BUILD:

Invoke Top-Level maven targets --> test

POST BUILD:

Cucumber reports



